Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going tohave another example for the input box,
and we're basically gonna create an employee database using input boxes.
So we're gonna input some impl eat data.
So here I've created the macro that would do that.
The first stop on the macro is that we're gonna activate the employee data worksheet,
and then we're actually going to get the last throw on the worksheet.
And we're going to do that using column Azour going to get the lost row on column a size to
be able to know where the loss employee is and then enter the data for the next employees
on the following row.
Now we're gonna have a variable they schooled.
I be underscore i d.
And it's type is an integer,
and this variable is gonna contain the value for the input box that's gonna ask for the M
plea I d.
And with great as an integer because the idea is going to be a number,
of course.
And please note that although the input box outputs a data type of a string,
V B A is quite a forgiving language on that and this I be underscore I d variable.
That is an integer is not going to cause a problem because VB A will do what is called an
implicit data type converge in in other programming languages.
This could cause a problem,
but in VB a,
it will not now.
The following step is that we're gonna put the I.
D.
Number in the cell that is following the loss wrote in Column A says he can see ourselves l
r plus one.
So we're going to the road that is after the last row,
and then comma one equals I be underscore i d.
And then there is another variable here called I Be Underscore name that is going to
contain the employee's name.
When we get the input box that says,
Please enter the employee's name and then this is gonna be put on the same row in column B
.
And then there is another variable here called I Be underscore hiring dates,
which is going to contain the employees hiring date that we're gonna input into the input
box that says,
Please enter the employees hiring date and this is gonna be enters on the same row as well
in column C and then we're gonna have a message box asking us if we would like to add
another employee or not.
So we're gonna have a variable called answer.
And if the answer is yes,
VBS,
then we're gonna go to enter another employee,
which is just a point that we've created here at the beginning Enter another employee so as
to go back and get us about the next employees details.
And if the answer is no,
then we will just exit the macro using the exits of statement.
Okay,
so let's run the macro here and see how it's gonna go.
So if you run that,
please enter the employees.
I d Yes,
sir.
I'm gonna put five and then the employee's name.
So I'm gonna put John Doe and the hiring date,
and you can see her.
But please enter the employees hiring dates D d M M y y so as to enter in the international
form.
So say I want to enter the seventh of May 2016.
I'm gonna press okay here.
Would you like to add another employee?
I'm gonna click no for now and examine what's hopping here.
So you can see here.
Employee i d.
Five in column A and then John doling Selby to here in column B and then the hiring date
has been entered in the international for So it is here that the hiring date has been
entered in in the international form and it's not caused any problems for two reasons.
First of all,
my computer is formatted in the international form,
so the dates format on my computer is in the international form,
not the US form.
And the second thing is because we've declared the I B date variable as date.
Now,
if this variable is not declared as a date,
we're gonna have a problem.
So this is actually one of the benefits of declaring your variable.
So let's say we're not going to declare this variable,
okay?
We're just gonna leave it as a variant and try to run the macro again and see what happens
.
So employee i d to say I'm gonna put six the name that say's gonna be John Smith and then
the employees hiring the Let's say I want to put the 10th of May 2060 and let's see what's
gonna happen here.
You can see here.
It's not been added as the 10th of May spin at it is the fifth of October.
The reason for that is that when you enter a dates into an input box by default,
it's gonna be understood as the American form.
However,
when we had the variable I be underscored,
Date declared as a date,
it actually abided to the date format off my computer.
So this is why when we entered it the first time when we had the variable idea underscore
date declared as a date.
So when we had it like that,
it didn't cause any problems.
But then when we entered it with the i B date variable not declared,
it caused the problem.
So this is one advantage year of declaring your variables.